docker compose down
docker compose up -d --build --scale app=3
docker ps

http://localhost.
docker stop local-cloud-app-1
docker start local-cloud-app-1

enrollment_requests_total


Phase 1: The Clean Slate (Show the Build)
Always start your presentation with a clean environment to prove you aren't faking the servers.

Open your terminal in VS Code.

Destroy any old, running servers by typing:
docker compose down

Tell the panel you are now deploying your infrastructure, and type:
docker compose up -d --build --scale app=3

Run docker ps to show the panel that Nginx, Prometheus, Grafana, Jenkins, and all 3 NestJS containers are successfully running.

Phase 2: The Load Balancer Demo
This proves your Nginx API Gateway is actively distributing traffic.

Open your browser and go to http://localhost.

Fill out the Student Enrollment form with a fake name and submit it.

Point out the Replica ID at the bottom (e.g., df95019f1b16).

Submit a second and third student.

Emphasize to the panel that the Replica ID keeps changing, proving that Nginx is perfectly balancing the load across your three backend servers.

Phase 3: The High-Availability "Crash" Test
This is your "wow" moment. You will prove that your system is fault-tolerant.

Bring up your VS Code terminal next to your web browser so the panel can see both.

Tell the panel, "Let's simulate a critical hardware failure where Server 1 crashes."

Run this command: docker stop local-cloud-app-1

Immediately go back to your web browser and submit another enrollment form.

The Result: The enrollment goes through flawlessly! Explain that Nginx instantly detected the crashed server and rerouted the student to the surviving containers without the system ever going offline.

Bring the server back online by running: docker start local-cloud-app-1

Phase 4: The Enterprise Monitoring Demo
Finally, you will prove that the system is fully monitored, just like AWS or Google Cloud.

Go to your Grafana dashboard at http://localhost:3000.

Make sure your time range in the top right corner is set to Last 5 minutes.

Point to the graph and explain that it is actively tracking the enrollment_requests_total metric scraped by Prometheus.

Go back to your http://localhost tab and rapidly submit 5 more enrollments.

Go back to Grafana, click the Refresh button at the top right, and let the panel watch the live data spike shoot up on the screen.
